I'm gonna talk a little bit about
peer-to-peer testing so i'm mateus I go
by math and torture and github I also
write a lot of pure pure stuff and when
you write peer-to-peer stuff I feel like
you run into this problem a lot where
it's really hard to test it and what we
normally do is what I know we do at
least is I take a mile a bunch of
modules and then I write a bunch of tape
test a market test and whatever your
preferred portion is and then you test
all the modules like that which is
really good you get actually really good
coverage like that but then at some
point it says it's beautiful here we
want to do network stuff and everything
becomes really really tricky so
basically been spending a lot of time
recently trying to figure out how can we
make that situation better
basically all my testing where we still
do network stuff like education tests so
and also I did not make any slides
because I was fixing a bug anyways so
has anybody ever heard about mini net
cool it's one of those things I learned
about two months ago and I just pretend
that I always know about it since flavor
it's basically a small framework library
that allows you to very easily set up
virtual networking on Linux and virtual
networking if you're not familiar with
it it's just like a way to basically
pretend to her branch or network
attached in your computer and they all
behave like normal networks but with the
added benefit of you being able to
define your topologies and like all the
settings for the network cards and stuff
like that so kind of like light weight
VM networks and the cool thing since
we're on Linux we also have very simple
Linux containers so we can count like
composter and together into just making
very easy simple Bowl just of all things
so if I just was Amanda I thought that
so much that's the only way I know how
to like copy that thing I just search
for anyways and then Danish flag emoji
okay this is like a ton of good data
here yeah so it's this project
basically so I somebody linked me to
this and it's like this is actually
really good for setting up virtual
networks which is actually what you want
for if you wanted to do like actual
testing when integration test and stuff
like I said I just instead of having a
ton computers what your networking is a
really good solution so I read up on
business and I found out there's pretty
good Python support for this there's a
Python library so what I did was I wrote
a module called mini nerd because that
was available on NPM also and it's node
module that just in JavaScript that just
writes Python behind the scenes so
basically what you can do in mini net is
you can do cool stuff like this where
you require it and you can say I want to
get a switch you know like a normal
switch you have at home and then you can
say I want to create a host and a host
it's just a minimap way of like a
computer basically a small container and
then you can do cool stuff like link
your hosts with a switch or a link a
host where the host might basically
build your topology think of it like ask
then there were cables house to take go
into things and then you can spawn stuff
on the host so in this simple example
I'm just phoning a note server and then
I have a some message passing logic
where you can send messages often on the
server and react to it
so that part is really really cool so
basically if you have a server like this
down here you can spawn that into that
container and it gets this you can
require this mini net host thing to
message your host script which is this
one up here
so down here I'll just spin up a server
and when it's listening Iran I sent a
message listening and then in your host
you get a message listening event that
you can react to and there I just try to
run curl against it that's like a simple
test so let's try that out it's really
easy to use if you're on a boot tool
which I'm not so what I did was I have a
bunch of container
don't eat pseudo I'm just gonna do so
just like virtual punter so if we go
into I think I have it here oh it's no
modules so here I have that I don't have
that here
here's that readme did I not have the
example here oh it's in the folder
that's why I'm so here I have that that
server you saw from before and that
sample that kind of orchestrates it so
what I can do is I can just run this
example and I'll just run that MiniMed
server so down here you can see it says
server listening on 10000 because the
server is printing that out and server
responding and thing all coming together
so the cool thing is you looking very
easily set up these virtual networks
just in code without having to worry
about a ton of stuff but it is kind of I
did this now it's like that's cool and
then I try to use it and what's really
hard because it turns out when you do
peer-to-peer stuff you have a ton of
servers often and you have to do a ton
of orchestration to like test anything
and I'd end up having like a ton of box
and that and then you end up testing
your tests which is like the most useful
thing you can ever do as a programmer so
I started thinking how can I improve
this and I'm a big fan of tape people
know what APIs or like cat in general so
it's like a very simple test runner for
node that's just allows you to write
like linear tests basically with basic
assertions so I started thinking how can
I turn this into tab at our tab like
experience and I wrote this cool module
called tape net also kumain because it's
tape for networks or tab for networks so
it's basically a small module and it
just uses the
every time I assume when I record my
screen it takes forever and for some
reason it's just a small module that
takes the same idea wraps the mini net I
put it in a nice little test runner
interface so this is a very simple
example where you require a tape net
which is just mini made you can still
make the hosts and the switches and you
can link them together and then you can
write a small little test here where you
have a small description
this one says start a server and connect
to it and then there's this magic
function called cedar run that just runs
the function on a virtual instance so it
actually takes this function in serial
isis's and sensitive to a Linux
container that's running in an
environment where based on a topology
and then runs that code and this this
these host also acts as magic event
emitters that you can use to embed
events across the virtual instances so
it's really easy to set a bunch of stuff
up so what I do here is I run it away
for listening event on the other host
because you want to orchestrate
something first and I'm not trying to
connect to the other host here and then
see if I get a response from it and down
here I spin up another server and I
create a server and just reply back
right so very simple example and the
cool thing about doing it this way is
that if you have your server fire like
this you can just run it and I'll just
run it as a normal tape test gives you
tape output and it's really easy to test
and show how really fast it is it's
doing a ton of stuff behind the scenes
it's like spawning Python converting
JavaScript or Python setting up virtual
networks and like yeah crazy it's like
writing 8,000 global variables in Python
also but everything works so that's
really cool and there's a ton of extra
fun stuff here where typologies all the
sudden turn out to be really easy
because you want to test a bunch of
different pathologies because if you
ever done anything with future peer
which i think people in here have you'll
find out that all your crazy box comes
from people's crazy topologies and
topology
because this is all software it's really
easy because it's just a JavaScript
function so I have it apology here I
call basic that's just like make a
switch make a bunch of hosts and link
them together you can usually do that it
just as a function I have another one
here used to test at a ton where it's
just a linear topology or serial
topology where you have a host connected
to a host that's connected to a host
like a Christmas chain lights but you
can use that to test a ton of stuff and
what's cool about the mini net is that
our module is that you have really
awesome options like when you link
things together you can say cool things
like I want to use a 10 megabyte uplink
on this one but I want to have 100
milliseconds delay and actually give me
10% packets lost because I want to see
how my fing behaves there and again you
can just do this in software and you can
just run that as a tape test so as an
actual example of where we started using
this a ton was in the dead project which
I work on we started adding a bunch of
integration tests so here's one for
example that is very simple
it's a integration test that just tests
multicast DNS and it just literally just
runs two instances and they try to host
and try to find each other using
multicast enos and I literally fixed 20
bucks after running this test because
you find out that when you run an actual
network things don't behave as you
expect and just toss stuff like that so
it's really really easy so that was all
I wanted to share so if you're if you
want to try out setting up the tests
this is a really good way the main
downside is they only works on Linux so
be really cool if somebody wanted to
help out to get this running in a dollar
container or something like that so we
can use it on Mac that's it thank you
oh yeah sure yeah you can it's really
really powerful it's it's it's one of
those Linux Fink's that's really knowing
because the hardest thing about MiniMed
is installing it because you have to
clone a repo and call like four
different scripts and it turns out that
one on github it's not to my tag and you
know so that's why you know a dark
container just takes all that pain away
so I use I just use the system do you
container for mine but you can totally
do that but it's actually also
surprisingly useful to run it without a
net and just run it self-contained to
see how you think behaves like multicast
DNS on Linux behaves extremely
differently if you have an ad or not for
some reason that's why I find all my
bugs yeah any other Christmas cool thank
you